---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Noach
date: 2020-10-20T05:46:12.069Z
description: Noach
featuredpost: true
featuredimage: /img/03956a8716e425875c0ad1a4db9d104e6363b9b872b0837fd38788e8a891a672.jpeg
tags:
  - noach
  - torah
---
GENESIS 6:9-11:32

**PROPHETS** : ISAIAH 54:1-55:5

**GOSPEL** : LUKE 17:20-27





1. Is your household in order?

Yes! Things here are clean and good. It feels good. Other than my grass needs mowing. My lawn mower got stolen! And now there’s a bunch of snow on the ground. 

2. Is there anything I can pray for your life?

I’m always bad at answering this question. I will ask you to pray for me to stop procrastinating my work during the day. I feel like it is a dumb thing to ask you to pray for but it is something that I’m working super hard at right now and finding it much more of a struggle than it ought be. 

3. What are you seeking?

I’m seeking the kingdom! Well, sort of. I’ve been watching Ian Clayton a bit, though I still kind of feel uncomfortable really striving for the experience he describes, like I don’t want to force it? But I feel self-conscious about \*not\* having had that experience, so I guess more properly, I’m seeking total obedience and atonement with the father. 

4. Are there any new things in holiness you have added to your life to walk in?

I started taking communion every day. I’ve also been praying in tongues. I feel like I’m not very good at it. I think it \*sounds\*... ok, it comes naturally and flows fairly well, but what I’m really working at is to pray with \*intention\* and I don’t know if I am successfully doing that. It also feels like it’s still \*me\* doing it and I don’t know if that’s right. 

5. Is there anything new you have learned?

My Hebrew is kind of coming along. I can follow along with audio and if I get lost I can find my place. I still feel like I’m not even close to being able to read out loud or at pace but I’m learning more words.

6. Anything in Torah, class, devotionals, or outside reading that “hit you?”\
The idea that Noah’s flood was a baptism of the world! That’s crazy!

Further Notes + Studies

The hebrew words for Ark are different: תבה is used for Moses' basket and Noah's ark, and ארן is used for the Ark of the Covenant. The New Testament was the one that first drew the connection between the two. God loves boxes! and he always uses them to make covenants. Usually on a mountain. And there's usually a 40 day and 40 night period of tribulation (Noah, Moses, and Jesus). I think the only other period of 40 days and 40 nights is Elijah (who went to Horeb.) Hmm, is Elijah an example of a failed covenant? Or a successful one, even? 

It's cool that our bound bibles today are like little boxes, even though during the time of the Torah they would have been scrolls. 

Whenever God starts giving builders dimensions, you know he means business. 

> and the windows of the heavens were opened.

Does this refer to the fact that there are waters above the firmament?

> ה֗וּא אִשֵּׁ֛ה רֵ֥יחַ נִיחֹ֖חַ לַיהוָֽה
> a sweet savour unto the lord

I think this is the first time we see the offerings made to the lord. 

I like Art Katz! and it's cool that he went to the seminary in my city. I looked up the seminary online and I don't feel at all called there. I bet he did not make friends with his Holocaust thing, though he's probably right. Hosea is a tough message to preach on. I got that word when I went to the EDM church in Minneapolis, across the river from Art's seminary. They have a program called "Love This City" where they very publicly feed the poor. Big yikes. 

His word about overeating being a sin definitely hit home. His word about healing reminds me of a joke: A rabbi says to an elder rabbi "I have this horrible affliction, a sickness, it keeps me from my prayers." The elder rabbi says "ah, but how do you know which is more pleasing to God, your prayers or your sickness?"

I am also reading Peace of Soul by Fulton Sheen. It's pretty good, though I am finding it a little bit pedestrian. Of course people in modern soceity are depressed because they don't know God. That doesn't seem particularly novel to me. 

Some time has now passed and I have continued reading Peace of Soul, and am enjoying it more. I'm really enjoying an insight that he had about inner conflict potentially being useful, since it is a microcosm of the inner conflict destroying mankind, but that in modern times it has become destructive. This is something I think about a lot, with art and with comedians in general -- there is the sentiment that you must be troubled in order to produce great art, which I think is a load of modernist hogwash but there is no question that many artists are in some ways troubled and that it does seem to inform compelling art. This struggle is something that a lot of my comic friends struggle with and it seems completely obvious that Christ is the solution here and I hope more of my comedian friends will realize that. 

OK, This is a dumb question but why is Abraham considered the father of Israel and not Noah? 

I am evaluating something I read in Nicolas Roerich's work. Roerich was kind of a weirdo Orthodox Pagan and one of the founding fathers of this whole "spiritual tourism" virus that seems to have infected the west, but he is my name sake and there are some things that I like about him. I find it edifying and important to have both a broad knowledge of my namesake but also to have the descernment of what to retain and what to cast away. One of the things he said in the otherwise corny book "Shambala" which left me dumbfounded was the idea that "Beauty, simplicity, and fearlessness are covenants with God." 

We see the phrases "Glory and Beauty" and "The Beauty of Holiness" frequently

> \[Ecclesiastes 3:11] - He hath made every \[thing] beautiful in his time: also he hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end.
>
> Exodus 28:40 And for Aaron's sons thou shalt make coats, and thou shalt make for them girdles, and bonnets shalt thou make for them, for glory and for beauty. 
>
> **1 Chronicles 16:29** Give unto the LORD the glory \[due] unto his name: bring an offering, and come before him: worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness. 

There's a lot of "Be not afraid" also. 

> **Jeremiah 31:33**  “This is the covenant I will make with the people of Israel
>    after that time,” declares the Lord.
> “I will put my law in their minds
>    and write it on their hearts.
> I will be their God,
>    and they will be my people.

Can virtures be a covenant? If we seek simplicity, does God also provide it? My gut feeling is \*yes\* but I want to keep praying about this. 



- - -

> Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers: the snare is broken and we are escaped **Psalm 124:7**

How many times have I read this passage and not noticed it ?? 

> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PpWxe1kGOTA

I watched this youtube video all the way through and then immediately went through and watched it again. I've never done that before with any youtube video. It's got some fascinating stuff that parallels many of the things Michelle has talked about. That there might be many antichrists, that we are currently living in the belly of an antichrist, which is this global technological society where we're all connected not through space but rather through shared experience. He also talks about garments of skin vs garments of light, it's a concept he explores a lot. He talks about is living in clown world, in the upside down world, which is how he describes the belly of the beast or the global neural system from this video, and that in that environment "the fools" can point the way back to the righting of the ship. 

I didn't journal the devotionals this week, but I will do this next week.