---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Bereshit
date: 2020-10-19T18:55:05.428Z
description: Portion 1
featuredpost: true
featuredimage: /img/chemex.jpg
tags:
  - bereshit
---

**Torah:** Gen 1:1-6:8
**Haftarah:** Is 42:5-43:11(E), Is 42:5-42:21(H)\
**Apostolic:** Rev 22:6 -21

**Gospels:** John 1:1–17

One of the things that I've been thinking about this word for a long time is trying to figure out the way god implements his plans for the world. I don't know exactly why there's two creation stories, but it seems like God does a lot of things twice. He made the Old Testament and the New, he gave Moses two different versions of the Law when he destroyed the first, there was Elijah and Elisha, John the Baptist and Jesus.

בראשית ברא אלהים.

[Twitter Tweet](https://platform.twitter.com/embed/index.html?dnt=false&embedId=twitter-widget-0&frame=false&hideCard=false&hideThread=false&id=1317206250774515712&lang=en&origin=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A2368%2Fbereshit%2F&siteScreenName=ghost&theme=light&widgetsVersion=ed20a2b%3A1601588405575&width=550px)

God Says "The sphere is the mystery of the age".

There aren't many spheres in the bible. "The voice of Thy thunder 'is' in the **spheres**, Lightnings have lightened the world, The earth hath trembled, yea, it shaketh."[Psalms 77:18](https://biblehub.com/psalms/77-18.htm) YLT. I suppose spheres could refer to sephirot but that isn't really biblical at all. I have trouble even finding circles in the bible.

It is He who sits above the circle of the earth,\
And its inhabitants are like grasshoppers,\
Who stretches out the heavens like a curtain\
And spreads them out like a tent to dwell in. (Isaiah 40:22)

“When He established the heavens, I was there,\
When He inscribed a circle on the face of the deep,

Proverbs 8:27

> “He has inscribed a circle on the surface of the waters\
> At the boundary of light and darkness.

Job 26:10

Ezekiel wheels would be circles, obviously. [T](https://bible.knowing-jesus.com/topics/Circles)here are also tent-circles! So I think that the tent circles could describe the cosmos. There's 12 of them... if somebody ends up using this idea as a biblical justification for astrology I'm going to be bummed out.

> Thus says God, the LORD,\
> who created the heavens and stretched them out, (Isaiah 42:5)
>
> “Enlarge the place of your tent,\
> and let the curtains of your habitations be stretched out;\
> do not hold back; lengthen your cords\
> and strengthen your stakes. (Isaiah 54:2)

Regarding God's word – He didn't say that the sphere is the mystery of our age, or this age – he said that the sphere is the mystery of THE age. For what it's worth.

Eden is transformed into the world through the tabernacle, the temple, and the body of believers. Far be it from me to think that I could understand God's plans, but it seems like he creates the structure, or the layout for his world, before actualizing the world and creating the physical reality. To my mind, this is part of the distinction that John is making when he says that the word is both with God, and is God.

> Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things? 11 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and otestify that we have seen; oand ye receive not our witness. If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?

I have a note in my bible (from holisa?) linking the separation of the waters from the waters to the cloven tongues of fire in Acts. I don't really know what this means.

> And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them.

The gift of tongues is the salvation from the confusion which God cast upon humanity in the Tower of Babel

God creates the fish which live inn the darkness in the lowest place on the earth and then sent Yeshua to make the disciples into "Fishers of Men" bringing light to those on the earth who live in darkness. (from pageau)

> And I will put enmity between you and the woman. And between your seed and her Seed; He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise His heel.\
> _GENESIS 3:10_

Satan was made to get stomped on, Praise the Lord. I think I understand God's curse now – he's low to the ground. His dominion is the ground and he is cursed to have no part of his body which is not touching it.

Abel is a keeper of sheep, but Cain is a tiller of the ground. God prefer's Abel's offering, which foreshadows Jesus. The story of the favored brother, or one killing another, is a pattern throughout the bible, though I'm not knowledgeable enough to list them at this time. Maybe one good example would be Barabas (son of the father) and Jesus. Another could be Joseph being mistreated by his brothers.

Enoch walked with god, and he was not, for God took him Gen 5:24 (I'd love to dig into the hebrew here.)

God being filled with regret at creating Man confuses me. How could God regret his creation? It seems an extraordinary thing for Noah to "find grace in the eyes of the lord". I feel like I find that grace but certainly not to Noah's extent.

SING TO THE LORD A NEW SONG, AND HIS PRAISE FROM THE ENDS OF THE EARTH

> let the habitants of Sela sing for joy,\
> let them shout from the top of the mountains.

I initially wondered if Sela is a pun on "Selah". Sela here means "rock". It's translated into the greek as "petra". Obviously rocks are important.

> I will turn the rivers into islands,

wat?

The caution in Isaiah against Idolatry is a powerful one. I have struggled with idolatry, of myself, of icons, of celebrities. I praise the Lord in his grace has washed that away from me.

"I will give you the treasures of darkness And hidden riches of secret places" I don't think I would have thought that the darkness held any treasures, but God made that too. And He rode upon a cherub, and did fly; yea, He did swoop down upon the wings of the wind.\
**יב** יָשֶׁת חֹשֶׁךְ, סִתְרוֹ-- סְבִיבוֹתָיו סֻכָּתוֹ;\
חֶשְׁכַת-מַיִם, עָבֵי שְׁחָקִים.**12** He made darkness His hiding-place, His pavilion round about Him; Psalm 18

"For Thou dost light my lamp; the LORD my God doth lighten my darkness."

"And the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass" διαφανής Doesn't necessarily mean transparent – it means "shine through". When we see pure gold, we see God's light shining through. In Revelations, the Tree of Life is inside the Holy City, because the city is the ultimate continuation of the story of the Garden through the Temple into the Body of Christ. Thus the body of christ and the body of the church are the Holy City.

re: Rev 22:18: "Uh oh, Tim LaHaye"

Rabbi Jose bar Hanina taught that "heaven" (שָּׁמַיִם‎, _shamayim_) means "there is water" (_sham mayim_). A Baraita taught that it means "fire and water" (_eish u'mayim_), teaching that God brought fire and water together and mixed them to make the firmament. "Do not mistake the floors of heaven for water". The streets of heaven לִבְנַ֣ת הַסַּפִּ֔יר are made of saphire סַפִּיר

"And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so." But there's also apparently water above the heavens?

Torah is the heart of god, because the first and last letter of torah spell heart. I want to read more words this way, taking the first and last letter ( סַר - to depart ) I don't know how to judge the biblical merit of "alternate reading strategies" like this. I suppose Gematria would probably included in "alternate reading strategies", as well. My gut reaction is that they absolutely have merit, but maybe only for the reader. That is, there's really no sense in sharing them in any kind of public discourse, except to teach examples of how to read this way. It would almost certainly be foolish to derive massive proofs or validate outrageous cosmic insights using them, because if you get enough "alternate reading strategies" you can really read whatever the heck you want to.

I wasn't praying to God to take me to the garden, but I was kind of wishing for it? and then I realized that I had a Garden at my house, and also it needed weeding, so, um, thanks God.

Every time I try to persue knowledge and learn something on my own, I don't seem to get anywhere. When my heart grows deeper in love with God and I persue him and live as a child he shows me things and grants me divine intellect and the knowledge comes automatically. But I really oughta memorize more gospel.

ok what exactly is meant by portal ?

Eating of the tree: "in the day you eat of it your eyes will be opened" the tree is "pleasant to the eyes", the eyes of both adam and eve are opened... But... then they immediately stop using their eyes. They look at themselves and they knew that they were naked. They immediately hear the sound of the lord walking in the garden – they don't see him. Adam and eve are never decribed as seeing after this. They are described as seeing before: God brings the animals to Adam to see what he would call them.

"And the evening and the morning were the first day." OKAY I figured out why Sabbath begins at sunset

ארן and ארהון are very similar, aaron and the box are used somewhat interchangably. Like that passage about how the thing being lost is a great tragedy. It's somewhere in Deuteronomy, I can't find it right now. This is not really a note for bereshit, I just wanted to get it down.

HOW DOES ANYBODY READ BIBLE WITHOUT PAUSING EVERY TWO LINES TO TAKE NOTES AND STARE OFF INTO SPACE FOR 20 MINUTES? lord have mercy

Do they make Bibles where both the word of God and the word of Yeshua are highlighted? Cause that would be nice
