---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Vayera
date: 2020-11-08T18:55:05.428Z
description: Portion
featuredpost: true
featuredimage: /img/barnum.jpeg
tags:
  - bereshit
---

Vayera

1. Is your household in order?

I hope so, I haven't been there in a week and if it isn't then that's a problem for me.

2. Is there anything I can pray for your life?
   I'm sharing a lot of testimony this week to a lot of folks who aren't really walking in Christ, to some atheists and non-belivers so maybe you could just pray that the Lord continues to work through him and work in his way.

3. What are you seeking?
   Obedience!

4. Are there any new things in holiness you have added to your life to walk in?
   I started recording audio of the gospel! I just did this Torah portion, but it was neat and I liked it. I don't think I'm as good at it as the audio book dude who has a much better voice, but it's good to read the words and try to make my emotion fit the Word.

5. Is there anything new you have learned?
   I feel like I am kind of coming around back again to being "spirit led". Ten years ago in a very unhappy time I found Rabbi Nachman, and when I worked in a sort of ambiguous casual christian spirituality, I felt like I was being led by God and being led by the spirit. I (somewhat mistakenly) thought that all my actions were a result of my conversations with God. Of course, I was living in sin and not being particularly discriminatory, and I kind of had to hit pause on everything and reevaluate. I certainly am not perfected and feel as though God is still changing me rapidly and I have a long ways to go to be able to stand on the word in the foundational way that I would like to, but I feel restored that my actions are no longer separate from God's will.

6. Anything in Torah, class, devotionals, or outside reading that “hit you?”
   The sabbath message hit me real hard in about 40 different ways to Sunday and maybe I will say why someday but for right now I feel as though it is released and that's enough.

---

> The LORD said, “Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do, seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?

I think this part about why would God want to hide the destruction of the city from Abraham really interesting. I'm not sure why he would want to do this.He says it's because Abraham is going to found the nation. As though in some way the fear of God, and of the destruction of the city, would alter that blessing. Or maybe that's just me projecting myself into this because I'm a little scared God is going to burn my city. hah!

Lot doesn't seem like a nice dude. But I find myself associating with him this week which I really don't like. Having had a lot of people tell me to get the heck out of the city, I had planned to leave this Tuesday on election day, to placate the people who thought I was going to get shot in the street and to have a nice working vacation in Wisconsin eating cheese curds and drinking malts. Monday morning, I had a dream where I was partaking in sexual immorality, and God communicated that I needed to leave by 6PM. So I woke up, voted early, and got ready to leave the city. But I was waiting on a package, for something that God also wanted me to work on. Why would he have me do two contradictory things? He wouldn't! I knew it would get there in time. It showed up at 5:45pm. I got the dog in the car and left, with literally 30 seconds to spare. Thank you, God! very cool! I did not look back.

I haven't done as much proper study this week since I've been driving and travelling but it has been a deeply powerful trip regardless. I left the pain of my mom's death behind. My thought is, if I'm gonna get all weepy and drool on myself and praise the Lord it doesn't hurt to do it in a car where nobody can see me. I'm filled with gratitude for the Lord and for everything that he's done in my life.

I had a friend recommend some dude named John Crowder who I initially liked but the more I think about his podcasts the less I am into his schtick. He seemed to be basically dressing up as an orthodox priest. I guess he comes from the charismatic movements and offered some criticisms of stuff that was going on there, maybe like Art Katz, which I liked, but then he basically reverts to full on orthodoxy, which I don't know if I like that much. He seems to have a good mind for the desert fathers and some other folks. I looked him up online and a lot of people don't like him. It seems like he likes to dress up on youtube. The whole thing seems a little tacky, honestly. Oddly, he has a ministry called Sons of Thunder. He loves nicea and he loves the desert fathers and he dresses up like an orthodox priest so it seems like he should just become Orthodox and get it over with. My consumption of commentaries and preaching has gone way down in the last few weeks. I just like to listen to the gospels.

As I was writing this I just got randomly contacted by a shofar blower in Albert Lea, Minnesota with whom I am now going going to visit on my way back to Minnesota. He's a commodities broker! I'm going to drive through there and hang out. Thank you, God, very cool!
